
apt-get. Fetch Software Packages Directly From Internet
aptitude. It can also be used to fetch software packages directly
aspell. Spell Checker Command
awk. Use to Find or Replace text
basename. Get the directory and suffix from filenames
bash GNU Bourne-Again Shell
bc. Precision calculator language
bg .Send items to background
break. Exit the command or loop running
builtin. Run shell builtin
bzip2. Compress files to decrease their size Extraction/Compression
cal. Used to display current calendear
case. Put conditions in commands like if then structure
cat .Concatenate and display data of files
cd. Browse through directories
cfdisk. Partition table manipulator
chgrp. Change ownership of group
chkconfig. Check system configuration
chmod. Change the permissions
chown. Change owner or group of files
chroot. Run command on different directory
cksum. Print CRC and byte counts
clear. Clear all the things in terminal to start fresh
cmp. Compare two files to get detailed difference
comm. Used to compare two sorted files line by line in details
command. Run a command
continue. COntinue the loop/process
cp. Copy files from one location to another
cron. Schedule the commands to run at particular time
cronta.b Schedule command to run later at time
csplit. Break/Split files into two parts
cut. Divide files into many parts
date. Display current date and can also change it
dc. Show desk calculator
dd. Copy and convert a file
declare. Declare your variables with ease
df. Show up free disk space on hard drive
diff. Difference between two files
diff3. Difference between 3 files
dig .Get DNS Details
dir. Show all the directory details
dircolors. Directory tree color change
dirname. Full pathname to a path
dirs. Display recent directories
dmesg. Kernel and driver messages on screen
du. File space usage estimation
echo. Display message on screen
egrep. Find all the files in which particular lines are contained
eject. Unplug external connected device
enable.  Enable and disable shell commands (builtin)
env. Environment variables
ethtool. Adjust enternet card settings
eval. Evaluate several commands/arguements
exec. Execute commands
exit. Exit
expand. Tabs to spaces
expect. Automate arbitrary applications
export. Set env. variables
expr. Evaluate exp.
gawk. Find and Replace Text
getopts. Parse parameters which are positional
grep. Search files for lines in given pattern
groupadd. Add new user to group
groupdel. Delete any group
groupmod. Use it to modify group
groups. Print groups you're in
gzip. Compress files/folders
hash. Remember full path of the name argument
head. First part of file
help. Display help of any command
history. History of all commands executed so far
hostname. Print system name
iconv. Convert character set of the file
id. Print user or group ID
if. Create if command structure
ifconfig. Show network interface
ifdown. Stop network interface
ifup. Start network interface
import. Capture server screen and save
jobs. Show all active tasks
join .Join lines on common field
kill .Kill a process from running
killall. Kill all the processes
less. Display output of screen
let. Arithmetic shell
ln. Symbolic link of the file
local. Create local variables
locate. Find files at locations
logname. Print login name
logout. Exit login shell
look. Display lines
lpc. Line printer control
lpr. Off line
lprint. Print file
lprintd. Abort print
lpri.ntq List print queue
lprm Remove print queue (Single Item)
ls. List files in particular directory
make. Recompible programs
man .Show help manual
mkdir. Create new folders
mkfifo. Make FIFOs
mkisofs. CREATE iso9660/joliet/hfs filesystem
mknod. Make character files
mmv .Move and rename files in bulk
more. Display output in one screen at a time
mount. Mount the file system
mtools. Manipulate MS-DOS files
mtr. Traceroute/ping
